GOVERNANCE.md: update process for inactive maintainers (#22339)
RIOT-OS/RIOT: GOVERNANCE.md

Maintainers may also be removed after being inactive, upon failure to fulfill their Maintainer
responsibilities or because of violating the Code of Conduct. This also includes actively,
persistently, and intentionally trying to harm or successfully harming the code base of RIOT.
Especially, but not limited to, endangering the security or safety of RIOT.

#### Retiring a Maintainer

> A maintainer that has not shown a single interaction in a pull request or issue that took more than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A maintainer who has not shown a single interaction in a pull request or issue that took more than
```

> 5 minutes of effort over a period of 2 years will be retired and all permissions to the repository

Reviewer 2: Is there actually a way to get that information from Github?
For the last maintainer ping, I just went through the `git log` and searched their last (merge) commit.

How would we determine GitHub activity?

Reviewer: <img width="1683" height="942" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/94a98313-eded-4ef1-9514-01a3a381cb46" />

If this field is blank, there was no GitHub activity. The controls on the right let you select the year.
This makes it a thing of seconds to determine if someone has done *anything* or not.

Reviewer: I should've read the paragraph perhaps. That does not indicate RIOT activity, but IIRC @AnnsAnns mentioned that some maintainers haven't showed *any* GitHub activity at all, so that could still be used for that.

Reviewer 3: Still correct, you can click on that little RIOT-OS button :P

<img width="1343" height="921" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f5507c2-1db7-4278-87d6-ff0223bf6e8a" />

Author: It should also be possible to automate the shit out of it using the [Github GraphQL](https://docs.github.com/en/graphql/guides/forming-calls-with-graphql) API.

Reviewer 4: I don't think automation is worth the effort & maintenance burden here.

Reviewer 5: Also this would be yet another GitHub dependency or us (even though you could argue it is about GitHub specifically, but if we were to move to codeberg, this would also in theory be needed to be implemented for codeberg?). I would prefer to avoid that :)

will be revoked. The reason is that any account can be compromised. For maintainers that make
active use of the permissions, this risk is justified.

A retired maintainer will keep their permissions in the forum and their access to the internal
maintainer matrix room. In addition, a retired maintainer may return to active maintainer duty
at any point in time by reaching out to an admin to restore their permissions. A retired

> maintainer that returned to active duty can be retired again for inactivy in the past 2 years,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maintainer who returned to active duty can be retired again for inactivity in the past 2 years,
```

> but sooner than three months after restoring their permission.

Reviewer 6: > but sooner than three months after restoring their permission.

This is unclear to me. Is this to mean there is a 3 month probation period? Or do you mean that they cannot be re-retired for a period of 3 months?

Also, a very minor nit, but using the numeral "2," but then spelling out the word "three" is a bit stylistically mixed.

Reviewer: I think that this is a valid point, I also don't understand what's meant with the three months.

Author: There was a no missing in "but no sooner than". I also rephrased the sentence a bit to improve readability.

Maintainers may also be removed after being inactive, upon failure to fulfill their Maintainer
responsibilities or because of violating the Code of Conduct. This also includes actively,
persistently, and intentionally trying to harm or successfully harming the code base of RIOT.
Especially, but not limited to, endangering the security or safety of RIOT.

#### Retiring a Maintainer

A maintainer who has not shown a single interaction in a pull request or issue that took more than

> 5 minutes of effort over a period of 2 years will be retired and all permissions to the repository

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
5 minutes of effort over a period of 2 years will be retired. On retirement, all permissions to the repository ..
```

(splits long sentence)

Author: Done

will be revoked. The reason is that any account can be compromised. For maintainers that make
active use of the permissions, this risk is justified.

A retired maintainer will keep their permissions in the forum and their access to the internal
maintainer matrix room. In addition, a retired maintainer may return to active maintainer duty
at any point in time by reaching out to an admin to restore their permissions. A retired
maintainer who returned to active duty can be retired again under the same rules, with the

> following exception: During grace period of 3 months starting from the point in time the

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
following exception: during a grace period of 3 months, starting from the point in time when the permissions have been restored, the maintainer ..
```
